about us yen I think it's fair to say if
you're looking at it in a
student-centered way people are gonna
learn when they want to learn and know
sooner this is true this a treasurer
type but the actual problems I deal with
and the reason why I'm looking to this
book for like moral support moral
support as well as hard social science
research research in statistics is that
you know I look at a situation like ok
so you have a university program that is
ostensibly teaching people at a speech I
needs and the end of the program the
students can't speak Chinese and I have
data to prove this and again I did get
peer-reviewed articles looking at this
they can't read they can't write you
know you can test this so after four
years and tens of thousands of dollars
where you know whatever it is on a one
to ten scale they're still in a one you
know what I mean so that's a failure you
know what I mean and I can't say I can't
say in that more philosophical sense
well people are gonna learn when they
won't learn I want to move forward too
hard social science evaluations of what
works and what doesn't and when
something doesn't work it's got to be
treated like a crisis it's good because
the stakes are so high the consequences
for people's whole lives are so high I
didn't go I'm gonna go out a limb here
and use the word word prove in summing
up this element of the book I think you
could say this book proves that the
students are garbage it proves that the
professor's are garbage it proves that
the system is garbage now I could go
into more definitely those and it proves
that the price is way too high that the
price is way too high the cost where do
I end that of course the student debt is
is garbage and you know it is a problem
right yeah yeah but you know and that's
the of all those for I think the only
one the public is comfortable talking
about is the price you know that's in
the mainstream newspapers people are
very uncomfortable if you're actually
bringing out statistics and evidence and
you know you're doing evidence-based
research you're doing real social
science research proving
that the professors are not competent
that they are not reasonable proving
that the students are not competent I
mean you know it's it's strange to use
the word competition but with that
that's a good way to put it though is
that the students are not competent as
students that they are not learning that
they are not doing the work etc that's a
good play anyway even if that were in
the news though I think at one point in
the book the author whoever is writing
at the time made this point that even if
students knew the statistics of like how
many students are actually learning like
10 percent of students at this College
are really learning would it impact
their decision to go to one school
versus another bonus yen view is not a
book review it's a discussion of issues
raised by a book so I mean if you've
already read the book you'll find this
video more interesting because I mean I
think it's kind of phony it's the same
with album reviews these days anyone can
download an album for free in 35 seconds
anyway so why pretend the purpose of the
review is to recommend whether or not
someone buys it I recommend wasn't on
someone listening to it anyone is
looking for an album review today in the
music world is looking for some deeper
discussion of the album or the issues
raised by the album in the same way this
is a discussion of the book including
why it matters to us why we read it what
we got out of it and so on
the book is called academically adrift
so I am someone who's now spent a large
percentage of my life in universities
plural at the moment I am both a
university professor and a university
student with no PhD and I it looks like
in the next 10 years I'm gonna be
spending a lot of time universities to
get a PhD which I'm not thrilled about
like I'm not some you know first said
who thinks this is gonna be great
yeah I'm divorced this is my new
girlfriend not divorced from her but you
know uh you know my ex-wife was a
university professor and hilariously I
mean for one period of time my life
actually we were breaking the university
rules I was married I was married to a
professor and I was a student at the
same University so that was strictly
speaking legal now what why do I mention
this again it would be very vague for me
to just say I've spent a lot of time in
universities plural I've spent time in
universities in Asia I've spent time
universities in Europe I've spent time
in quite a few different universities
within Canada
none in the United States just mentioned
and I've spent time in universities that
were elite like namely Cambridge and
Oxford in in equines
it's about as elite as it gets elite
universities within Taiwan also for
example but I've also spent time in and
involved with not elite small local low
status universities however you want to
put it right so I've seen I've seen a
lot of the diversity I've spent a lot of
time with professors amongst professors
eating dinner with professors you know
not just when my wife was a professor
was meeting them as friends but also
just because now as an older student
going back I go out to dinner with a lot
of them talk to me as a friend a lot of
them talk to me as an equal not all some
of them hate me strokes but you know I
see even the professor's perspective I
also still am a student I still am very
much struggling with the issues of
student struggles with at this age so I
came to this book I mean why did I read
academically adrift in the first place I
guess I can say now for decades the
profound cracks in the edifice of
Western academia have been very obvious
to me and it's just astonishing that
nobody seems to want to take one take it
seriously nobody wants to recognize and
address those problems let alone
ameliorate them let alone solve them or
improve them and again I have actually
sat at meetings with professors the
professor and a Dean and an ombudsman
president we are trying to address
what's broken
you know sometimes I've actually been
involved in the kind of bargaining and
negotiating process as a student or as
someone connected the professors or what
have you and sometimes means that you
have sat there just powerless a set
third is feeling powerless and hopeless
and unbelievably awful the actual
content of education was in my country
in Canada now melissa is much younger
than I am right but I do but for your
degree from an elite University right in
the United States no but this is also
what's interesting in terms of when we
come together as I do we're at the same
bridge because so we both completed a BA
right yeah and we're both looking at
going back and getting an MA another
options like that
right we're both at that bridge you know
I have anyway my story's a lot longer
you know to me
I studied a number of different
languages and a number of different
universities all over the world etc and
your experience is that one University
United States and I think it is fair to
call it an elite University and it's a
prestigious university in any case now
I've been just just to give one talking
point from the book the book the
statistics of course are complex in
detail you can you can get the precise
stats but broadly speaking one of the
findings is that about 90% of the
students learn nothing now you could how
do you define nothing you know they
learned they learned remarkably little
but not I'm saying and they're about 10%
of the students who really are learning
who really are making progress who
really are improving in the areas
measured by what's called the CLA
college learning assessment which is an
image is their primary source of data
their primary research instrument is the
cervical the the CLA um I think for both
you and I that basically rings true like
you know obviously nine ninety percent
versus ten percent again it's not exact
and it's not going to be the same in
your intro to German class and your
intro to anthropology class and if you
study architecture and if you study
minutes a course it's gonna shift but
still broadly speaking but for you at
your your University and me at mine yeah
yeah and another thing that rang true is
that people are going through university
to get a degree to get a certificate yes
they will do what they have to to pass
the classes and go through it but
they're not going to go out of their way
to meet the professor outside of class
to study other things that I mentioned
not on the required readings but on the
recommended readings you know the
recommended readings are basically like
thrown aside by most students yes so
yeah that that's I think that rang true
definitely like seeing that most
students weren't weren't committed to
learning they were committed to getting
a degree and getting through college
yeah and
they put quite a lot of emphasis on
socialization - yeah so I clipped that
so I do want to come back to the issue
you just raised but I clipped a pie
chart out of the book here where they
have of the students total total
available hours they had 51% of those
hours nice event
socializing recreation etc 51 percent of
the time and that's not 51 percent of
waking hours that's 51 percent of all of
the hours in the week because sleeping
is 24 percent so 24 percent of sleeping
51 percent is socializing and an indeed
at first I thought oh well what about
working because the book also deals with
the phenomenon of students having
university students having part-time
jobs only 9% of the time is working
working and volunteering etc there's
some other things in that but then 9%
attending classes and 7% for studying so
much much much more time socializing
than any other category of activity
mentioned for students and remarkable a
little interested in actually doing this
yeah I won't say that that was my
experience but I think that was the
experience of most of the friends that I
had most of the other students that I
talked with that was their experience
and that's this is obviously looking at
averages I mean yeah yeah but it is also
interesting to note because I you know
the four-year degree that I got was at a
place where most people lived on campus
it wasn't a commuter school I did take
classes at a school in Detroit for on
and off for like two and a half years
and that was mostly a commuter school
yeah and it is interesting to see how
different the social lives are the
students that go to that school versus
yeah okay as a general philosophical
principle I mean I don't really want to
Center this on the student rather than
the institution but it's true if you're
taking a student-centered approach this
analysis you have to say people learn
when they want to learn and no sooner
you know your students don't want to
learn they're not going to learn and
that's
and part of it is motivating them to
want to learn of course you can't you
know you can lead somebody to water you
can we towards the water if you can't
make a drink but like I think a big part
of that is having a professor that
encourages students to want to be
interested in a subject or like at least
gives them some kind of like yeah I can
I can flip that around though or just
say but are the students in the right
subject you know why you know like that
that's another way to look at it so I
mean the motivations is complex yeah
well I was gonna say this is also why I
don't want to approach it at a student
centered way like what I'm really
interested in looking at is the
institution what's wrong with the
institution how is the teaching done
there are a lot of important questions
about student motivation and do they do
they want to learn and why are there are
they taking the right course are they in
pathways of learning that's the term
used in the book are they on career
paths that can even lead to the outcomes
they want can this even lead to
employment those those are
student-centered questions that are
really important but I think different
they're they're very distinct from
questions of institutional capacity
professorial competence etc right right
so yeah another thing that I wanted to
mention is that you know by the based on
the title you would think that it was
going to be an exposition on how people
start college without knowing what they
want to go into and like you know
they're adrift they can't choose they
can't like you know put their thumb on
what they actually want to pursue that
wasn't the main point of it but I think
for me that was my experience with you
know I started off hoping to double
major in biology in English with you
know this was before I actually started
college I you know I had vague
aspirations of becoming a medical doctor
or getting involved in the medical field
in some way but once I actually got to
university and saw all of the
requirements and started to complete the
requirements or try to complete the
requirements became clear pretty quickly
that I didn't I wasn't fully aware of
what was required and what not even what
was required but what was beneficial to
getting into medical school like there's
a lot of extracurricular things that you
can do or that basically you have to do
to get into elite schools and this book
does mention that like students will
like in in high school have these
aspirations like oh I want to be a
lawyer be a doctor and they don't really
no how many years and like how much
effort you have to put into it okay but
just pause but that too is an area where
these institutions are in the parlance
of our times bullshitting yeah so we've
just been through this even a little bit
in this relationship but I have decades
of service so you know you talk about
extracurricular activities being
required to do this so in the field of
Buddhist philosophy would you do do I
have sufficient or you know way more
than sufficient extracurricular and
volunteer experience to get into an
elite school and put his philosophy so I
just met you guys don't know my
background or watch this video but I
have more than a decade of experience I
went to Sri Lanka
I met bhikkhu bodhi I stayed in the same
big Buddhist temple bhikkhu bodhi used
to stay in Sri Lanka I met bhikkhu bodhi
in the Unites States of America I've
done this Buddhist philosophy thing in
elite universities in Europe and in
elite Buddhist temples in Asia I've
traveled I've learned the languages I've
even published peer-reviewed articles
without having an MA or a PhD yet and
when I'm looking to apply to a lowly MA
so you just say it's also interesting
this kind of thing
well you can't me I've got all
of these requirements and more and I
can't I can't get ahead in that field
now why there are a lot of reasons why I
mean there's there's a lot of reasons
but also there's this this haze which is
a haze of academic freedom where
academic freedom is a smokescreen for I
think institutional incompetence you
know you know now the reality is
professors are deeply prejudicial people
they're human beings American I can make
excuses Oh extent but professors have
religious beliefs Buddhist philosophy is
a religious area you know like we could
get Intel that there were religious and
political business and I'm from the sir
my first diplomas in political science
you think it doesn't matter that I'm an
anti-communist I'm basically
pro-democracy and against communism you
think that doesn't matter in a
department political science if the
professor making the decision is
themselves afar left-wing or communist
so so I'm doing politics of China and
one of the professors at University of
Victoria is an active communist party
member now supporting the commerce power
you think that doesn't matter like do
you think what do you think that is more
my record of volunteer and humanity
in work or my political position in
Carter's but so arts and the sciences so
and what I was going to say about the
maybe maybe these problems cut pretty
deeply cut pretty much but go ahead yes
that question I had mentioned you know
it's partly falls on the professor to
incur to motivate encourage students to
actually care about the subject you know
that's debatable but what I was going to
say is that's a lot different verses
between science versus liberal arts at
least in my experience in science like
how you know how passionate can you
really be about physics at least when I
was taking it was like okay I'm just
doing this because this is a requirement
to get into medical school like you you
know and I had no you know I had no
attachment to it it was just something
that I had to complete whereas when I
was taking certain literature classes I
was like okay this is interesting to me
and if the professor was interested in
the subject as well like that motivated
me to want to produce good work and you
know be able to talk about something
with other people in the class who are
also interested in the subject and you
know at least in my experience
literature and science like this very
different that way so this brings back
to one comment before you use this term
of basically how how high are the
professor's expectations that the
professor's having higher expectations
is significant for the students
performing that are learning more having
better better test results now why is
that a major issue in this book it's
because the books line of reasoning
begins from data so it is point us out
it turns out when they look at the stats
when they look at the data that higher
expectations in the part of the
professor actually does correlate to
better outcomes for students sona's
pointed it out it's not a philosophical
argument it started now another example
of that something you might not think
it's significant or interesting is that
the data indicates that more time
studying alone emphasis on the word
alone equates to higher outcomes higher
performance on the CLA at the East
quantitive may be more improvement more
learning okay studying in groups does
not
group studying social studying what
everyone's like studying whether the
students actually equates to lower out
comes to learning last surfer getting
more but it was a negative learning so I
just mentioned those are the kinds of
issues this is the advantage and
disadvantage of having a kind of data
first approach you're starting from the
data you're saying what does the data
teach us and it does teach us for
example that professors having high
expectations is paused important now
almost the only other thing in that list
to have the list here but there aren't
there aren't that many hard conclusions
from from the data but yeah I think the
only other thing on the list of what the
data shows us is about the quantity of
reading and writing
that students do right yeah but what I
was gonna say I I agree with what they
with the results that they found that
studying alone results in better
learning and in the sciences
particularly studying in groups was
encouraged it was the it was the norm
like you know when I was having
difficulty in physics and organic
chemistry I took I I went I joined study
groups so this is like two hours after
you know outside of class that you would
sit down with a graduate student
instructor and everybody would come in
with like the questions that they had
from the homework and yeah it was
basically doing everything that a class
should have done but because the
lectures were enormous and like you know
like 500 students or something like that
how can you how can you address any of
these problems so like study groups were
really emphasized like if you want to do
all in this class you should join a
study group and coming from somebody
that doesn't really want to be doing
physics at all like yeah I needed even
more like I needed even more than the
study group I should have had a tutor or
something but anyway turns out I just
you know I didn't end up going into
medical science but so yeah that was
what I was gonna say like I did have the
best results when I actually was able to
study alone but the problem was with
math and science sometimes like if
you're studying the wrong thing you're
screwed like but even more extreme with
language education yeah can you can you
learn Chinese alone
can you learn Chinese without talking to
someone who's a native speaker or at
least much more advanced as a student
that's also that's also a question so
but I think proceeding from the data
that way though you do get a cart before
the horse or a chicken-and-egg problem
sometimes I think one that's a totally
vacuous stat that way in this question
of studying alone like you know if
you're competent enough in the subject
then you can study alone productively
right but if you're not it's like
physics you may not be at a high enough
level in physics that you can study
alone yet so you need tutoring or some
kind of social performance that you
would so that's also you get a cart
before the horse a bit of a change I
think but another one for you it was for
you it was if maybe if English is your
second language is maybe for maybe if
you're a Pakistani immigrant getting a
degree in English literature you know
wouldn't be so I think well you know but
anyway I think another really striking
example that where the stat is vacuous
they make a big deal of the stats
connected to how often you contact the
professor outside of class but again to
me it's like whoa okay so the implicitly
this is you know you can't mix up the
chicken of the egg or the cart before
the horse here if you're a really strong
student professors want to chitchat with
you and maybe vice versa you want to
chit chit chat with professors but this
doesn't really mean that there's any
education to the chit-chatting with
professors or you know I mean so this is
this is the kind of problem you get into
with with an approach that that leads
with the data but obviously the whole
strength of this is that it brings to an
ongoing political debate about what's
wrong with American universities and
Canadian universities I'm at a mad it
brings to it quantitative measures
brings to a real data point yeah I
thought it was good when a class
required actually meeting with your
professor one-on-one but that was only
the the smaller classes that I had like
forty students was the smallest class I
think in and I don't even think that the
professor's who were teaching classes of
400 students had like regular office
hours if you did like how could you how
many how many students can you move it
yeah anyway yeah you were saying like
the one requirement they got to was
forty hours of reading per week and
twenty hours of writing per semester
that was it was in pages I think
writing was in pain yeah so so so many
pages of reading and so many pages of
writing per per course okay this proves
it one of the top someone talked about
though uh you know I'm deeply concerned
about the readings being assigned being
garbage that's marketer so you know it's
one thing obviously this is a kind of
very crude metric are you doing forty
pages of reading in the whole course if
you're doing less than that maybe it's a
bad indication and that shows up as
statistically significant yes in the
early part of the book the first chapter
or two is a bit more philosophical and
then we just get into a kind of
statistic by statistic exposition of
what the what the study proves but in
the early more philosophical part we do
get reflections on the changing role of
the professor himself or herself of the
changing nature of the professor at and
you and I have both encountered this and
struggled with this many of these
courses are designed to be self
indulgent for the professors simply to
indulge the narrow research interest of
the professor with no concern for what
would be useful to the students with no
concern even of what's useful to the
field or the discipline like what will
prepare you so let's just stick with
what is studies is one example I've been
involved in a number of different fields
but it's one thing to design a course
and say look I'm gonna prepare these
students so they can have a future as a
researcher in the social sciences or I'm
gonna design this course so that we
really get a survey of the history of
Asia so you know enough about the last
1,000 years in Japan Korea China India
you know you make a list so this is the
competence you're gonna gain so you're
prepared to move forward in this field
or you're prepared to move forward in
several fields like maybe Asian Studies
history etc what-have-you there's
there's a there's a difference between
that and so again I'm not the you know
terms like student-centered can be
misleading I'm not talking about amusing
the student so that the light instance
I'm not talking about designing the
course in a way that's gonna that's
gonna make students happy maybe students
are miserable learning the history of
India but you say look guess what guys
if you want to do Buddhist studies
you've got to know a thousand years
mister yeah well actually you got to
know two thousand five hundred years of
history but
3000 would help anybody finish this
degree you should have a competency
right the last 1000 years of a sure
whatever whatever is and again you can
imagine very easily what I've said it
could apply to English literature very
easily - but this is completely
different from this professor did his or
her thesis on this this professor is
doing his or her thesis in one
specialized area that may be of no
interest to the students may be of no
utility students may not prepare them
for any kind of work or research in the
future it doesn't deliver any competence
it's just what that professor is
obsessed with or what that professor
gets research running with what that
professor deploys his or her graduate
students to do for the research on now
if this doesn't sound familiar to you
you haven't been spending firsties
lately because this is come this is
completely endemic I had a course that
was supposed to be a survey course it
was something like you know Asian
Studies 301 it's supposed to be
interesting the field and it was a the
assigned readings which I did and nobody
else did I mean now because I talked to
the other students and I really did
talked and there weren't that many
students in the class I talked to them
about you know but they really just
reflected the totally eccentric totally
self-centered self-indulgent obsessions
of that professor which included by the
way some obscure islands in Polynesia
now look I I you know some parts of Asia
may not interest me like you know okay
so for example if you're in Asian
Studies and your real interest is
Buddhism maybe you're not that
interested in Saudi Arabia but Saudi
Arabia is a really important country for
understanding what's happening over Asia
politically economically historically
you got to know the history of Islam you
can't know the history of Buddhism
without knowing the history of Islam
being a hundred percent sincere that if
you want to have confidence in Buddhism
you need a certain level of confidence
in Islam that's completely justified
however there are some islands in
Polynesia that do not contribute to your
knowledge of anything else in any useful
way in this we're talking about remote
islands in Polynesia like islands that
had no contact with any other Society
for centuries really you know I mean
they only had con it with a couple of
other remote Polynesian islands they
don't help you with the history of China
or the history of Japan
India rennet and but just because it's
this professor's obsession we're being
handed the most ludicrously left-wing
communists theses on agriculture on
those islands
so it's like an incoherent rants about
how Lenin's theory of Agriculture isn't
appreciated enough in the context of
like how Polynesian islands first
appropriated chicken raising technology
I am not joking and you're paying tens
of thousands of dollars to study this
how so like I did the reading nobody
else did
how do you expect a student like you
know maybe he's 19 years old maybe he's
21 what maybe it's 20 or whatever you
expect a student to sit down and be like
yeah I'm gonna read this this is about
communism Lenin's theory of Agriculture
and chickens in Polynesia it has no
relevance to his interest as New Orleans
to his life as a student and it does not
in any way build confidence so again I'm
saying this clear I'm not arguing that
professors need to cater to to to to the
amusing the students to the caterer
cater for their interest in that sense
but curriculum if you just think about
the meaning of the word curriculum you
know what is the curriculum here very
often even if you're looking at a course
that has 40 pages of a sign reading or
80 pages or 120 pages I I think many
cases the students are justified in
refusing to do that reading right yeah
so when I was focusing mainly on getting
the English degree I was taking 12
credits so it was basically like three
classes before credits each and it was
all literature classes so I had a lot of
reading each week so you know in some
ways I'm biased to think like this
requirement is good forty pages of
reading a week that seems definitely
doable and like the minimum that a
university student should be doing
because you know I was doing like three
times that at least per week so yeah but
we were saying like I like two different
examples of we were you're mentioning
you're talking about like curriculum I
get to it should prepare you it should
have like you know for English
literature
yeah I should you know I have a
competency about the history of English
low-angle English literature and so like
yes there was a rubric basically for
what we had to do so like you know I had
to take some classes pre sixteen
hundred's
English literature and then through the
1800s and then up through and there
there was requirements for American
literature and you know I did take two
classes with this one professor because
I was interested in what he was
interested in but it was like you say a
pet project of the professor and it was
what he was basically obsessed with so
one of them was but is about was about
diaspora
so like tales or you know story books
that were about people of different
races that had to move and like you know
just like pretty depressing pretty
depressing topics but to me it was
really interesting like and the other
one was about intergenerational memory
so like the memories of this abuse that
would happen you know to different
different races and ethnicities in the
past and like how this how this
transformed literature in some way and
to me like that the books are really
interesting you know like I read go down
Moses by William Faulkner and that was
like a really interesting examination of
African Americans and Native Americans
in America throughout the late
18-hundreds and early 1900s one was like
really brutal about a family that had
been slaves and their their
transformation to into a society that
was not slave owning but was still you
know dealing with all these
repercussions of slavery that one was
called Corregidora and then another one
that is important to me is called love
medicine and that's mostly about like
Native American history throughout from
like the 1950s up to like the 1990s so
like those were all interesting to me
and you know I was you know I liked what
the professor was talking about and
you know I was really motivated to like
write interesting essays and but you can
still recognize the design of the course
is just the idiosyncratic researchers
for the professor it has nothing to do
with you and it's nothing academic
excellence or prep or preparation for
any kind of job or competence in a field
right you know I could I could mention
but I mean look deserves that even when
the system works it doesn't work on the
narrow issue of reading and we'll Godot
well I guess I guess this is both
reading and reading and writing you know
I think there's also an assumption here
that the reading you do was a university
student is the assigned reading for the
course so I just went through a couple
years at University of Victoria and from
the very first week of classes I was
going to the library and getting at the
books I needed to write the essays which
are not the required readings so I would
just say for some of my courses I was
interested in the require readings I had
no time for them all of the time I had
was doing original research that was you
know thematically related to what the
course was about so to give an example
history and politics of China but I
could not spend the time reading the
textbook even if I was interested in the
day I could not spend that time because
I had to go and read a bunch of
different books to write an essay and
your essay couldn't be based on the
textbook you know what I mean
of course you do it would be even if you
did it would be terrible you know you
can't you can't write the essay based on
the textbook so that's also a question
of what you're reading now I'm an older
student this is I already had a
bachelor's degree in political science
so I was really prepared for that so why
I did it from the first week I mean
obviously other students probably wait a
month and then get out of the books then
but from the first week of class I was
going to the library and taking of books
that were not the assigned reading I was
doing non assigned readings because I
was looking at the syllabus and saying
okay two months from now I got to
produce an essay on this topic so on a
topic of my choosing but the truth well
am I though am I because what no but I'm
pointing out I'm being so critically or
I cuz I'm not doing the required reading
I'm not you see I'm not doing
the producing great essay I am producing
great essays because that's why it's
already what I'm good at you're going to
have to do research and write an essay
yeah you boy are so advanced in like
most of the information that would be in
the required readings that you know
maybe further no no honestly still ice I
regret that because like some of the
courses you know about Mao Zedong
Cultural Revolution modern communism
trying to I wish now now that I have
time I wish I could read the textbooks I
wish I could even read my handwritten
notes from class I wish I could do the
required readings I couldn't do it I
didn't have time that was partly because
of the pressure of writing all the
essays partly because I was in a special
accelerated program I was doing all 400
level courses like everything was 400
thread level I'd know lower focus over
the workload was really bad as probe
because of language learning which is a
subject for another video but because I
was learning Chinese while I wasn't
called and then I was learning Japanese
while it was good I had no time for
anything but that that was also good
saying when I look at this pie chart of
how much time students spend studying so
basically so just to get the the so
students spent an average of 15 hours
per week in the class in class of any
kind so classes labs tutorials about 15
hours per week in classes of any kind
and then they spent less than that on
all forms of study yet so studying here
includes writing essays maybe so 15
hours a week
and then less than that right there so
then less than that with the reading and
writing and studying because it's not
necessarily studying for a test it could
be writing writing an essay right now
the thing is not only does that ring
true for me in terms of what other
students were doing like for every one
hour in class they were spending less
than one hour and outside of class work
that I think is true of the majority of
students did around me at all these
different universities not not the
exceptional elite but the majority I
think that that's true of a sort of
thing but I have to say that was even
true of me as a ratio for my time for
the classes other than the language
class because I had a period of time
I've talked about this in you before I
was waking up at like 5:30 a.m. and 6:30
a.m. to study Chinese before I was just
absolute so much weight I got fat I was
absolutely killing myself trying to put
in the hours to study Chinese at this
impossible pace and it was it was
killing me but that did not
time for other classes so I just say
like my point is not to say I'm a nice
guy
my point is when I'm looking at this I
can really easily remember how I also
managed my class time and got high
grades with a similar amount of time
being spent on classes even though it
wasn't it wasn't in my case because I
was going out and partying I didn't have
I didn't have 50 no I wasn't spending 51
percent I mean I was fit spending 51
percent of my time studying Chinese or
Japanese and applying for jobs and
applying for internships you know and
doing other crap like that you know
related to university and looking for
masters the reason ph.d program simply
other other pious stuff yeah I mean that
is based on averages of course no from
from my experience on average just you
know from the students that I know there
was more time than what they you know
suggest like 7%
to get through the projects and through
the sure sure sure but it's like you
have to do like computing right you
don't make a program right but but you
you were at an above-average University
yeah you know you were at an elite
University and you were probably talking
to above-average people yeah when I went
to that others went to the school in
downtown Detroit like I doubt yeah I
think it is probably on par with it yeah
so and well and there's a big difference
reciting architecture and studying
theater I mean oh so yeah it's an
average but to me I think that this
really - I I want to come back oh so
this 90 90 versus 10 percent think 90
percent first Emerson the thing because
I got to tell you I've I have been of
course I've been in individual courses
that were better than that where was
more than 10% of students who were
really making advances in there who were
substantive lis learning and who were
improving their their skills whether
it's reading skills writing so I have
been in classes that have been betting
that but I have also been in a lot of
classes that were worse than that
where it's fewer than 10 percent or
getting anything out of the course are
learning anything whatsoever I've just
come out of an Asian Studies department
more very often in the class even in the
Highland again there I was having to do
all four under level classes you know
with a few experiment was in this
peculiar program even in the high level
classes it's like
yeah when I really think about it in
that whole class are there two or three
people who are learning something of any
interest to have any engagement you know
what I mean and and large number of
students thanks to the laptop computer I
can see for a fact they're on Facebook
during class I can see for a fact
they're doing clothes shopping during
class like you you when you're doing
clothes shopping on a laptop you got to
think about will these jeans fit me like
I know like that's a pretty high-stress
activity actually buying clothes online
you are paying zero attention I took a
philosophy class on logic and in one of
those classes like one student was
checking the stock market every single
time just playing the stock market it's
obviously a business major or something
yeah I thought that was a particularly
funny example but yeah I saw that
definitely Facebook Ennio social media
shopping I think that's that's really
common but you know it's hard to tell
with the number of students I had in my
class is like you know I felt like I
learned a lot in the psychopathology
class I took so I just was you know
mostly out of just interest in the
subject learning about the different
kinds of mental disorders and you know I
wasn't majoring in psychology and it
wasn't a required course but there were
like there wasn't like 500 student like
sure it wasn't enormous but it was like
probably 300 or maybe 250 and it's like
how do you really know I don't know like
okay so you're in a different position
for me a class of 250 students even know
but I would you say when I'm making
these generalizations I'm often talking
about a class of twenty students and I
talk to eighteen of them at like you
know what I mean like like but in many
cases I talk to all twenty I just say no
in many of my classes I really met and
spoke with every single student so I I
just met you because like when you walk
in you know if the professor isn't there
yet you can be like so would you think
like did you read it very often those
that's right that's exactly
was it about right no that's those are
exactly the sources of information I
have as a student with that perspective
and I say in other situations I've had
the perspective of a professor I'm gonna
go I'm gonna go out a limb here and use
the word word prove in summing up this
element of the book I think you could
say this book proves that the students
are garbage it proves that the
professor's are garbage it proves that
the system is garbage now I could go
into more definitely those and it proves
that the price is way too high that the
price is way too high the cost where do
I end that of course the student debt is
is garbage and you know it's a problem
right yeah yeah but you know and that's
the of all those for I think the only
one the public is comfortable talking
about is the price you know that's in
the mainstream newspapers people are
very uncomfortable if you're actually
bringing out statistics and evidence and
you know you're doing evidence-based
research you're doing real social
science research proving that the
professors are not competent that they
are not reasonable proving that the
students are not competent I mean you
know it's it's strange to use the word
competition but but that's a good way to
put it though is that the students are
not competent as students that they are
not learning that they are not doing the
work etc this is good we have even if
that were in the news though I think at
one point in the book the author whoever
is writing at the time made this point
that even if students knew the
statistics of like how many students are
actually learning like 10 percent of
students at this College are really
learning would it impact their decision
to go to one school or versus another
like what what really like for you I
think yes definitely and for me yes
definitely but like I think a lot of
students are swayed by sports facilities
like whether the team is good and so
this this brings us I think to the the
thesis or the meta thesis of the book as
a whole which is that what do they blame
for this fundamentally they blame a
shift to a client holistic relationship
that a free-market ideology has in a
profound and subtle way changed the
behavior of everyone especially the
behavior of students maybe the behavior
of students more than professors that
you know this is a fee-for-service
relationship between a client and yeah
basically like an entertainment complex
that I mean really that's that's a blunt
but honest summary of it that that that
the universities are offering a kind of
lifestyle that is a great deal to do
with sports and recreation and getting
drunk and probably sex and they don't
talk about sex that much actually
there's actually very little about sex
but you know it's offering a kind of for
your vacation almost in a particular tip
and a credential that's also then they
talk about credential ization
credentialism and that students approach
that looking to do the minimum amount of
effort in order to get that credential
and then they also have these other
agendas in terms or maybe a maximum
amount of sports or well no no no but
we're saying it about 90 percent of
college students no no no but the whole
point of data is to go beyond you're
saying well this is only problem for
some coaches
it's a problem for the vast majority it
is definitely a problem for more than 50
percent of coaches right and now the
influence is on on professor's behavior
again that's really early in the book
for summers is the early more
philosophical chapter where they deal
with that but they look at what are the
motivations for professors behavior and
the fact that professors are not really
concerned with helping students they're
not concerned with outcomes they're not
concerned with whether or not the
students learn anything and what what
they are concerned with includes their
personal research you know they don't
make up these professors as vampires or
parasites you know they do kind of map
out all the different cuz they have to
deal with faculty meetings they have to
deal with their own research definitions
they care about students they care about
right they care about student
evaluations they care yeah we're getting
positive reviews basically from students
like right right my professors calm know
right the professors have an interest in
giving high grades to students who don't
deserve them it gets into all of that
too but this kind of behavior analysis
but they're they're metathesis as I say
is that this is a more than merely a
commercialization this client'll ization
this free market reform that happen
almost invisibly within universities
universities still have the same outward
appearance of ancient institutions but
they're not that's been undermined in a
in a profound sentence yeah this is true
in some ways and not others cuz I can
still ask why can't I get a PhD in
Buddhist philosophy why can't I get
ahead in political science I mean there
are actually still ideological go I mean
just say even that little anecdote I
gave or it's like well it matters more
that the professor is a communist or it
matters more that the professor is a
true believer in some bizarre form of
Buddhism from Japan or England
I know examples of this you don't mean
like you know their their ideological
and religious beliefs may actually
matter more than all these problems as
as profound as they are yeah sorry I'm
it's it's just an interesting problem
like like yeah you know how to get and
the recommendations are weak I mean
where do we go from here yes the
recommendation that we need more
research is strong the recommendation
that we need to bring into universities
hard objective analysis of what's going
right most measurements of outcomes it's
the fundamental thing that we have to
bring in tests like the CLA and I think
it's worth mentioning briefly what the
CLA does the CLA measures student
competence you know it's not like an IQ
test it includes things like presenting
the students with a variety of short
articles short source information having
them read them in an analytical way and
then come up with recommendations write
up a short opinion piece or summary or
cassette of conclusions and so on so
your confidence in doing research and
writing and so-called critical thinking
if you want to use the term critical
thinking analysis right right which is M
you know it's not a specific job skill
but this is something that students
should be acquiring as an ability should
be improving in during four years across
all disciplines basically even if you
like if you work in the sciences so one
of their examples is doing this with
aircraft safety where there's a report
about the airplane crashes and then you
read these different short articles so
then you have to write up your
recommendations you imagine you're
working for a firm that has to decide
what kind of aircraft to buy or what
what the what the
of this this this research is about
aircraft safety so that's something
someone in the sciences should be able
to do someone in English literature
should be able do and they should be
able to do better and better during
those four years and then at the end of
their graduation they should be able to
do much better at the beginning and
basically what the study showed is no 90
percent of the students don't improve at
all and that overall in the first two
years there's almost zero appreciable
growth in those so-called critical
thinking abilities and now I don't I
don't like this term critical thinking
again I think it's a pitiful smokescreen
in it you know what I mean but but but
that description what I've just
described is just more useful than
crippling it that's the type of activity
that's the type of research ability type
of competence you're looking at
evaluating yeah yeah I mean it's a
fundamental problem with priorities that
the priority is socialization and not
really learning and I don't know where
that starts it obviously doesn't start
in college like you know throughout high
school - I think that is right many
students goals well yeah I don't know I
don't know like if it's really just the
fact that in general only 10% of people
will get through college and really
learn something if that's just a fact or
if they you know what can be improved I
don't know III said before you know
people will learn what they want to
learn and no sooner yeah and also think
of like the general age bracket you know
like I started college when I was 17
it's like you know I know like yeah are
you like you and me and like like we
care about learning like and you know
you more so than like when you when we
first started University like comparing
you know I think you really did care
about more about learning than I did
like you know I was going to college
because that's just what you do and yeah
it and it's it's it's also an
interesting question like should
everybody be going to college yes and
that that is what that is what policy is
leading towards you know like and
everyone getting into $50,000 in debt
apparently yeah yeah they mentioned like
a policy that Obama was I don't know if
it was a policy they did pass or
something but they mentioned that he
like now college is like the new high
school degree in this that's totally
true I feel like with an English degree
you know I
at the very base level yes getting
getting a semi my professional job you
know like not working at a Jimmy Don's
or something like I I can but even that
is a struggle a BA in English literature
sort of entitles you to nothing in
today's society which is a kind of a
tragedy for a for several video I think
it's fair to say if you're looking at it
in a student-centered way people are
gonna learn when they want to learn and
know sooner this is true that's a
tragedy over times but the actual
problems I deal with and the reason why
I'm looking to this book for like moral
support moral support as well as hard
social science research research in
statistics is that you know I look at a
situation like okay so you have a
university program that is extensively
teaching people how to speak Chinese and
at the end of the program the students
can't speak Chinese and I have data to
prove this and again I did get
peer-reviewed articles looking at this
they can't read they can't write you
know you can test this so after four
years and tens of thousands of dollars
where you know whatever it is on a one
to ten scale they're still in a one you
know what I mean so that's a failure you
know what I mean and I can't say I can't
say in that more philosophical sense
well people are gonna learn when they
want to learn know these students peed
you money to have an organized program
that would teach them the Chinese
language and in an Asian Studies program
they should also learn something about
the history and politics and geography
of Asia you know I mean like you got to
learn some gr you got to know where
things are in Asia you know what I mean
there may be something about literature
and culture you know what I mean there's
a lot packaged into that beyond language
but the core function of that of that
education which maybe tens of thousands
of dollars and years of your life you
never get back was to learn Chinese and
these students made that choice they
made that commitment they put that trust
in your hands
they said mister you're the expert you
teach me Chinese you decide how it's
done I'm not gonna decide what are the
educational methods that's your
responsibility I'm giving you the money
I'm sitting down in this chair I'm
giving you the the some of those vital
years of my life
and at the end of it I'm supposed to be
able to speak Chinese and they can't
it's a failure and I have sat there in
the boardroom again most students would
never do that they wouldn't have the the
confidence I've taken I've taken a
complaint forward with the Ombudsman and
the Dean and the head of the department
and confronted with the fact your
language program is a failure as an
objective fact what are we gonna do now
can't we do a little and I had practical
suggestions for how to improve it when
something's really a disaster you're
there it's easy to improve you know
there were there were things that
wouldn't have costed any money
it could have improved it and I saw the
total paralysis of that department their
inability to improve it that department
is now in receivership all the
professors hate each other they can't
cooperate on anything you know there are
other reasons why it's a disaster even
beyond just the the language program
right so I just say philosophically and
include terms of advice I might give to
my own daughter or my own cousins or
somebody yes it's easy to put emphasis
on the students say well people learn
when they want to learn and maybe 90% of
the students in college don't want to be
in college or don't know why they're
there or they're in the wrong major
which is a great tragedy look you know
cuz it [ __ ] up the whole rest of your
life like maybe you were in English
literature and you shouldn't have been
in a merger and there are other people
who you know either some of the trip and
it's really the wrong subject for them
but they didn't think it through or they
didn't know what their options were you
know that that whole story okay fine but
I want to move forward too hard social
science evaluations of what works and
what doesn't and when something doesn't
work it's got to be treated like a
crisis it's good because the stakes are
so high the consequences for people's
whole lives are so high and you know
maybe it's so ironic cuz at University
of Victoria we had a great department of
educational methods basically of
educational philosophy you know they
have their specialized people who do you
know who do these really sophisticated
things where they sit down and deal with
the difference between tasks based
learning and lecture based learning and
stuff so yeah well guess what
maybe having 40 students sit at little
square desks in in a grid maybe that
does not work for teaching Chinese maybe
it works for teaching Latin and ancient
Greek and not Chinese maybe our
works relied and Greek maybe that's also
you know really ineffective it's a
separate question but you know it's like
okay so I know this doesn't work you
know how do you teach archery how do you
teach someone how to play the guitar you
know these are fundamentally different
challenges you know but we just have a
fetishized cultural notion of professors
standing there and giving lectures on
philosophy professor standing there
giving lectures on their own research
interests
that's the poison at the heart of that
system I'm sorry to say it but it is
professor if professors want to give
research on the tree if they want to
present papers on their own researchers
if they want to present their own
philosophy do that at a conference with
other specialists that's where you
should do it is it academic conferences
do that acolyte colloquia and symposia
everywhere don't do it to a captive
audience of eighteen year olds who can't
question it who can't use it for whom
it's wildly irrelevant to their interest
even within the program where it doesn't
confer any but that is the fetish
probably can't make these complaints to
write like you were in a position that
you were older and more mature and to
make these complaints yeah students that
are 18 to 21 and even for me it was
emotionally heart it was emotional
facing up to authority figures and doing
that it was hard it was hard for me for
other reasons not that I was afraid of
the professors but yeah it was emotional
to be fair I do think that the program
that I did gave me an overview of
English literature I you know I think it
was effective at that but it wasn't
effective at preparing me for a career
for anything that passed that other than
an master's degree in English which huh
okay right so let's it but okay English
literature or for example journalism you
know or Asian Studies or history I think
what you need and this should be a legal
requirement I would say in Canada I
think this could be a federal law I
think the department has to state what
the competences are you will gain before
you enroll that has to be defined and
then that has to be objectively measured
with standardized testing so if you know
English literature you preferred as I
was saying journalism so because
journalism so journalism you could
actually say journalist this is going to
teach you and prepare you for career
journalist we could have this this and
this cop
you know I mean now I don't know like
with English literature it's way more
debatable cuz it's so broad you probably
that would be a huge to fight within the
department that the professors would
have to sit down and discuss what are we
preparing students to do are we
preparing them to be high school English
teachers you know maybe maybe that has
to be as maybe up to split the
department into two pieces maybe half of
them are being prepared for are we
preparing them to write book reviews for
the New York Times which is also a legit
competence to confer there wasn't a
journalism degree at university much
where I went to school so right yeah but
I mean that first challenge is
incredibly worthwhile because believe me
I've been inside department's of
anthropology where there is no agreement
about what anthropology is like what
what's the meaning of the term what's
the meaning there's no agreement about
what are the students supposed to be
learning what are the outcomes supposed
to be but then you have to measure are
we or are we not living up there are we
getting those look of the students are
the students learning to be journalists
as defined and itemised this way as
quantified in a measurable test are they
learning to speak Chinese that one's
real easy to quantify because there's a
very clear competence to measure and so
on yeah I think there should have been a
survey of the students like what are you
what are you planning on becoming are
you planning on becoming a journalist
are you planning on becoming a professor
you know like and actually seeing the
results of you know 10 years down the
line drink do these people actually
pursue this do they become this and and
maybe those need to be separate
departments - or separate programs
separate special yeah I agree with that
because yeah it was just like if you
wanted to go into any of those fields
English the the program that I was in
makes sense like that was that was what
they had right so so I looked at one
with you that's sure that's what I'm a
major place that I was a major field or
just a career path that I was looking
into but maybe also there's training
just to be an author yourself we said
yeah I want to be a novelist you know
what I mean you know who I want to be
some kind of writer whatever it is maybe
that also be a separate stream with
separate requirements or separate
separate outcomes that they get they get
measured by I looked at a university
program with you
I was almost looking as a joke I already
knew about it but I showed it to you on
the Internet
yeah I looked at a university program in
Buddhism where they that they stated
what you're going to learn was to do
pastor
Oh care and funeral ceremonies so this
is preparing you for a career like a
Buddhist monk or a Buddhist religious
official of some kind this is what
you're gonna do so you know talking to
elderly people who are dying of
incurable diseases and performing
funeral service yeah I'm not you know
but that is very different very specific
career that's right no it's going to
prepare you for that right right but
that may be your your reconcilable with
someone who's doing research on politics
and history I you research on slavery
like okay so I want to talk about the
history of slavery within Buddhism and
Buddhist monks making up excuses for
slavers on that this is this is a type
of incisive research into the history of
the religion which is totally
incompatible with a department where
those the expectations of the professors
of the students or what have you you
know yeah but that that already like you
know something I think certain types of
services are inherently and ineluctably
a scam because they are unclear about
what the service is being offered if you
don't have that fundamental clarity if
you like you could show up and spend
tens of thousand dollars it's it they
say look bro
we just train you to do funeral services
or you know look bro we don't teach you
how to be a journalist here we just we
just talk to you about the professor's
favorite poems look bro we don't
actually teach the Chinese language you
know you just you just get to hear this
useless set of lectures on some remote
Polynesian islands yeah because that
happens to be what the professor you
know did his thesis on it you know it's
troubling so yeah just on that same note
I think that there should be like a
maybe at other universities there are
but and you know there should be a
pre-medicine degree you know like
because sure you know on one way in and
okay so in one way it allows you to have
a degree in something completely
unrelated and you just do the
requirements to get into medical school
but there are people that just want to
become a doctor and like they just want
to do the classes that they need to do
but they have to take physics with
engineers or people you know like or get
a degree in biology when they really
don't want to be a biologist they want
to you know go pre-med and that can
well if we don't have clarity on what
the service is being offered if we don't
have clarity on the competence the
student is supposed to develop then we
also can't hold the professor's to
account we can't hold the system's okay
and and vice versa that would empower
professors to hold students to account
to say hey look you enrolled in this
pre-med degree so this is what you're
you you enrolled in this you know
journalism degree whatever is so this is
what you've got to be able to do you
know if you can't do that by year two or
year three or something you'd have
whatever benchmarks you better switch
majors because this is what we're here
to learn this we were in it that's not
what you're to learn get out you know
you it could it could cut both ways
that's a wrap
you know the book is not a masterpiece
it is the product of writing by
committee I have done similar research
where you start with social science
statistics and then try to pull out
interesting observations I can
sympathize the challenge the authors had
that first chapter or two is well
written and then I feel the quality
rating falls apart however the book
imperfect though it is will be
remembered in the annals of history as a
major landmark in philosophy of
Education I think that's partly because
it has an excellent survey at the
literature it discusses everything else
that's been published before it and a
very you know concise and clear in a
useful way and it brings empirical
research methods to bear on one of the
last sacred cows you know one of the
last areas that's been held behind a
veil of inscrutability in Western
culture and it's it's a crucial area
that impacts all of our lives that has
such significance economically
politically philosophically personally
it's a problem we all must solve and
until fundamentally we take it to
Parliament until we take it to the
Senate nothing is going to change
there's no way you can expect you know
the Fox to mind the chickens there's no
way you can expect the professor's to
act against their own fundamental
interests there's no way you can expect
a for-profit university you know which
is how they operate even the ones that
are not in theory on paper are
try to earn less money that's right yeah
that's right
and that even comes down to these
questions of 300 students in a classroom
with a professor the the lecture format
the theater format as opposed to other
methods of Education and learning you
know you can't teach guitar that way you
can't teach guitar with one professor
and 300 students sitting in theater
sitting maybe you can't teach Chinese
that way maybe you can't teach you know
a whole bunch of different topics that
way no no they're they're all these all
these fundamental questions
responsibility but yeah there are
economic problems at the bottom right
and yeah the one one interesting part
was saying that there are problems but
the system works you know like it is
functioning it's not a crisis right so I
think maybe not until it is a crisis
will reform heaven until people treat it
as a crisis you see how recklessly
optimistic I am compared yeah I think
that's the whole point of politics is
try to recognize and address problems
before they become a crisis and I for
one you know if I'm elected I sink my
teeth into this issue and never let go
and when I was in Victoria I didn't just
take my complaint to the Ombudsman I
took it to Parliament that's a story for
another time bonus Yin